---
layout: posts
title:  "Last Train West"
date:   2019-09-03 08:47:46 +0100
categories: short-story
section: writing
---

When I was a young boy, the stars shone their brightest, the trees swayed the strongest, the sea breeze felt the coolest. Despite all this, the most beautiful in nature was the birds and their gleeful songs. When they chirped their melodies, I was at my most peaceful. It was nonsense really, the songs meant nothing to them, yet they meant everything to me. Sometimes I would hear a few notes that felt familiar, like a nursery rhyme from when I could barely walk or one of the songs the homeless sang at night. The high tones had their strongest impact on me those days.

The days had turned into weeks, and the weeks had turned into months. The beauty of the world still amazed me and the birds sang brighter and with more joy than ever. But something had become off-putting with the world. The skies were darker, making the night sky more dull than a rainstorm. The trees would barely bend to the wind anymore, as if its leaves and branches had become solid rock. The sea breeze was still there, but it was not as powerful as it once was. But the birds I had come to love still stood where they always had and sang their hearts out. It was still as beautiful as ever, and no matter how much the world around me bent to the grey and the dull, the birds had all of my focus.

I heard of the dangers surrounding us, as we tore apart our world, bit by bit, on accident and on purpose. Every time I heard about something new, the trees became more still, the stars became more dull, and the sea breeze weakened. My birds never fell on silent ears though, and always turned a mundane day a bit better. As they sat in their grey trees, just barely visible by the starlight, the birds sang their happiest songs yet, and for a moment, everything felt perfect.

One sunday morning, I stepped outside to enjoy the world. The world was as silent as ever, but with it the birds as well. My heart had sank and I became overwhelmed with nerves. What could it mean? Was it the final nail in the coffin? Is the world doomed to be forever gloom? It was as if the stars had stopped shining, the trees had become statues, and the sea had frozen over. The beautiful world had disappeared, and with it, the birdsong. The birds surrounded me yet, they had just fallen silent and left a feeling of unease wherever I walked. It told myself that this was the world that everyone lived in, and that I had finally left my childhood behind. It destroyed me, and I wept more than I ever wanted.

I met with old friends, whom overlooked my gloom demeanor, chalked it up as a bad day and nothing more. As a remark, one of them talked about how beautiful the birdsong was that morning. I could not believe it myself. I wanted to tell them that they were lying to me, that there was no such thing as birdsong in this world. Instead, I sat still, I nodded and agreed, even though it made me sick to my core. How would they react if I had said something as outrageous as that?

The dull days kept on coming, yet I learned how to keep it at bay. I had been numbed to the core, and it no longer affected me. Every once in a while, it had become unbearable and I had to lock myself from the world. I was still hoping for a miracle on those days, that the birds would once again start singing, that the trees would move to the wind, that the stars would shine brighter than ever before. I became a hermit; I stopped talking to people, I did not go to any parties or the likes, I held to myself at home. When everyone talks about the birdsong, it is easier to avoid talking to everyone. I could not even bring myself to walking outside in my garden, as that brought up those good memories from when I was a child. Thinking back to my childhood, I could not even remember the birdsong being apart of my life. The trees had always been rigid, the sea breeze had never touched my face, the night sky had always been grey, and birds had always been silent.

On a day I was numb, I left my house to talk to people. I had to try to not think about the birdsong, and people have a tendency to be distracting. I met with a woman who I immediately held a connection with. She told me about her family, her friends, and her work. Strangely enough, she never brought up birdsong, something I had become accustomed to everyone bringing up and I asked her about it. She immediately turned gloom and told me her story. Of how when she was little, the birds sang their brightest and most beautiful song, but as she grew up the song fell silent. Of how everyone brought up birdsong when she least wanted to, and how she separated herself from the world. Of how accepting one thing about adulthood brought back the birdsong she had missed so much. Desperate to listen to the birdsong again, I asked her what she had to accept. It was a horrifying truth, that only some have to endure, but it was necessary. She told me there was only one thing I had to accept.

Myself.

I did not think about it much at the time, I even think that I laughed a bit when she said it. But the truth was spoken that day. As I thought more and more about it, the world was not as grey as I had thought. How I looked upon the world was dangerous for my health, and I decided to change my outlook. I became more confident in my self, and with it the world became more beautiful. The stars shone bright once again, the trees swayed with the wind once again, and the sea breeze was once again cool and refreshing. Yet, the birdsong was not back. I met with the woman more and more, asking if she had felt the same. She told me that it was all normal, and that she personally had given up her memories of playing in the mud with the other boys, and how she had given up being the kid that was picked on by the girls for not being like the others, all to hear that birdsong once again. She told me to forget about my most harmful memories and I would hear the birds once again. So I did, and as my memories of being pushed around by my siblings and being the black sheep of the class diminished, those high notes was once again heard. It was a day of tears, but tears of joy are not as salty as tears of sadness. The stars shone their brightest, the trees swayed the strongest, the sea breeze felt the coolest. Despite all this, the most beautiful in nature was the birds and their gleeful songs.