---
layout: posts
title:  "Picture of a Thousand Years"
date:   2019-07-14 23:38:24 +0100
categories: short-story
section: writing
---

At first, I was overwhelmed. I could not remember the last time I had gone on a date like this. Nay, I could not even remember the last time I had gone on a date! I could feel my leg trembling, creasing my newly ironed trousers with every bounce. My tie was maybe too much, but it felt as if it made the whole thing more legitimate. When she first walked into the restaurant, I thought my nerves would kill me, but I actually became more calm than I expected. There was some familiarity to her, yet it felt very new. Her dress made her eyes stand out from across the restaurant, and I immediately drowned in the ocean blue. Her hair flowed past her shoulders, and no matter where I looked, I was reminded of a winter morning. I felt overdressed, sloppy, messy, underdressed, overall I felt wrong in her presence. She still smiled at the slob of a date she had be with, which eased up my nerves. We talked for hours, yet I could never remember about what! She was perfect, and she saw something perfect in me as well. We instantly clicked.

For months we dated, and with every day I loved her more. I did not see her as much as I wanted, as she worked long hours at a nursery home. Every day, once she got home, what would have been a sad day could immediately turn mellow and joyous. We went on many more dates; we left the country for some even, I think. It never changed the fact that I loved her with my whole heart. Every time I got the chance, I told her that once I had more money, I would propose to her in a heartbeat. Every time, she let out a giggle that melted my heart, but I did not know why. 

A carefree saturday, we had been invited to a family gathering. I wanted to meet her family, and so we would. They were very accepting of who I was and of our relationship, which made me even more gleeful. Her niece told me that she wanted a picture of the two of us, so we kissed and her niece let out a laugh, saying we looked cute. I asked her if she could send me that photo, but before I had finished that sentence, my phone lit up. I was not the most tech savvy, but I knew I had the photo. I immediately treasured it because we really did look cute.

I must have looked at that photo every night before I went to bed. We were an adorable couple, no matter who you asked. I had had my phone updated recently with the help from my son, and when I looked at the photo again, I saw a new button I had not seen before. It simply said “People (2)” underneith the image. As I pressed it, it showed a picture of my face, with my name under it and a number beside my name. 1,879. Beside me was a picture of her face, with her name underneith and a number. 1,874. I was not sure what that number meant, but as I pressed her face, I saw hundreds of pictures of me and her. I was confused. We loved each other very much, but neither one of us were trigger happy with a camera. I asked her about this, not thinking that she would have an answer. I had heard of there being “bugs” or similar that could apparently screw some things up on a phone, so I chalked it up to that. When I showed her the pictures, she laughed. She laughed like she always did when I brought up the question of marriage. Still confused, I gave her a bit of a stern look and asked what was so funny? Her face immediately dropped. She looked worried. When I asked her what happened, she laid it all out for me.

We’ve been married for 50 years. I was shaken to my core. How could we have been married for 50 years? I had met her only a couple of months ago. I had obviously looked shocked, and she was affected. I could see her eyes swelling up, only to hug me tight. She told me she would call for a doctor in the morning, and that we would sort it out. Morning came and I was driven to the doctor’s office. It turned out that I had developed dementia, and I would be lucky to survive the years to come. Yet my wife was with me throughout the disease. As months passed by, I got worse and started to forget her more frequently. Every day, she would tell me who she was and who she was to me, yet I always had a feeling that she was someone special to me before she opened her mouth.



I had fallen in love with a young man when we were both in our 20s. We had immediately clicked, and it did not take long until he would pester me about proposing if he had the money for it. I thought it was funny, because I did not need a big diamond ring to know that he loved me. Yet, one September night he sat himself down next to me and gave me the most beautiful ring I had ever seen. We had loved each other every day for 50 years, every day was better than the last. One night, he had asked me on a date. I was happy to go, even though we did not celebrate anything. It felt as if we fell in love all over again. Months after this, I realized he really did fall in love again. As I visited him, when he was treated for his Alzheimer’s, I would remind him of who he was, who I was, and who I was to him, and every time he smiled back to me and asked how he had been so lucky. One night, I had broken down on his bed. I told him that even though he did not know who I was, I loved him more than anything. He gave me a short answer, but one that I will never forget.
*I may not remember you, but that makes it so much better to fall in love with you all over again.*