---
layout: posts
title:  "A Curse for the Masses"
date:   2019-06-29 09:12:10 +0100
categories: short-story
section: writing
---

In this dull world, my work was the only thing that brought me joy. The work I did was not more exciting than watching nicely sculpted hourglasses drop their insignificant pebbles at various speeds, and once the hourglass has ran out, I quenched a candle’s bright, orange flame. That life was dull, boring, monotonous, yet I pitied the living. My life had purpose, it brought balance to an untamable world whilst those I was guarding did nothing more than focus on their “legacies”. As a cornerstone of life, I had principles to uphold, a burden placed on my shoulders, to put out the fire burning in those whose time had run out. I was Death, but that life have I since long put behind.

It was not all bad, watching those hourglasses tick by. The humans were spurratic, had evolved to create civilizations, religions, companies, and families. And they fought. Bloody wars came by every couple of years, and every time a couple of hundred hourglasses exploded at minimum. The shock always surprised me, but it was a welcome feeling compared to the numbness I felt every day between the wars. Sometimes, when I felt especially bored, I would take an especially weak flame and extinguish it myself before the hourglass would finish ticking. It was effortless, a quick look in the direction of the flame and it was gone. I was not one to grieve, I was not one to regret these actions. To me, every creature that had ever existed were nothing more than a wax candle on one of an infinite amount of tables. There were no pictures, no names, those who shared a relationship did not even share a table, so I could not even notice causation.

Then came that fateful day. As I was walking from table to table, looking for an especially weak flame to put out, looking for an hourglass that were approaching its deadline rapidly, an hourglass had stopped. Its pebbles, suspended in mid-air, silently colliding with each others, but not hitting the bottom of the glass. One by one, the other hourglasses followed suit, and within minutes there was not a single animal on earth who were approaching death. For the first time in my life, I had felt a wave of nerves flowing over me. What will happen now? What is my purpose now? My nerves settled when I reached the simplest conclusion. If these hourglasses will not show me when the men, the women, the children, nor the animals will die, I will have to become this hourglass myself. It was simple, really. As an omnipotent being, I could keep track of an infinite amount of timers and as soon as one ran out, I would blow out a candle. And so I did.

I would take a few years to put out my first candle. The mortals thought they had conquered me, and they would get their time to celebrate before I was to go back to simpler times. With years to spare, I decided to take on a mortal form and walk the streets of the world for a bit. To not interfere with the men I had gone to a remote forest, with grand trees reaching for the skies, thick snow which glittered in the winter sun, and beautiful mountains in the distance. The aesthetic usually never pleased me, but it was peaceful here, more calming than the infinite void I kept watch of. As I moved through the forest, my coat had been hindered by a simple branch. A tear was made, but I did not care. No one was meant to see me, and the chilling weather did not make me budge. I settled in an old and abandoned cottage, made from the thickest lumber this forest could offer. I made myself a fire to look at. Looking at an infinite amount of candle flames everyday should have made fire yet another dull thing in this world, but these flames that roamed the earth were not the bright orange ones that I had grown used to. Instead, these flames were red, becoming more and more yellow as they approached the utmost edges of the flame. It must have been days I kept that fire burning, just to look at it. When the flames had finally died down, I sat down in the chair near the fireplace. The fireplace was great, made from old bricks and thick metal plates, materials that could not be found anywhere else in the cottage. It was almost as if the cottage had been built around it. Beside the fireplace, a whole wall was covered in bookshelves. There were books regarding everything here. Fauna and flora I could not care less about; all I did was kill them when the time was right. Instead, I focused on fiction. These stories that these mortals with no purpose in life had created. Many of them were philosophical in nature, mentioning men overcoming themselves, their societies, their worlds, some even mentioned challenging me! As I dug deeper into books regarding men bringing back the dead, challenging world ending threats, and other impossible actions, I came across a story of how one man beat Death in a game, and his prize was eternal life. As the years dragged on, he became more and more depressed, as life was not as good being eternal as he had hoped. As the book reaches a close, the man roams the world, looking for a new found purpose, but will never find one. Although I deemed it unstatisfactory to end a book like that, it made me realize my purpose in life. I hastly left the cottage after that and got back to the void once more. The first timer had just ran out, and the first mortal was to finally die.

Searching up and down the invisible halls of the void, I found a flame ready to be extinguished. As I leaned in, I thought of who this might have been. Was this perhaps the creature who had hindered me from doing my job? Was it maybe he who had thought he defeated Death, once and for all, becoming the hero of his own story? Or maybe, this was the man who was cursed with eternal life, waiting for my cold embrace before fading into nothing. My coat was truly visible in the light of the candle, and as I picked up the candle, my hands were pale, but unfamiliar. With a quick pust of air, I would end another life.

The flame did not extinguish. Dumbfounded by this, I took another breath and attempted to extinguish the flame. Yet, the orange glow I had grown fond of was still there, mockingly smiling back at me. I put down the candle and tried another candle. Nothing. Had they really done it? Conquered Death? Cursed themselves with eternal life? I chose to not accept it. It could not be! They are mortal for a reason. In a panic, I tried to extinguish every candle I touched, yet not a single one had budged. The hourglasses were simply standing there, their pebbles floating in the middle, glowing in their candle’s light. I had lost purpose. Like a common man, my purpose was for nought, and I did not have a reason to continue from this point forth. Was that so bad though? The mortals had become immortal without a purpose by their own hand. They had cursed themselves, there was nothing I could do to prevent this. Thus, I had a plan set. The void was no longer needed. I moved down to my little winter forest and kept reading about human philosophy of all kinds. I have an eternity, and so do they. In this dull world, my work was the only thing that brought me joy. Now, attempting to understand humans has become much more enjoyable, and it will be entertaining to see how they will handle this self-afflicted curse.