---
layout: posts
title:  "Where the Lighthouse Shines: Chapter 3"
date:   2020-10-02 17:00:18 +0100
categories: serial-chapter
section: writing
---

A quick shake awoke Fable from his heavy slumber. It was dark out by now and Fable was unable to see anything beyond the car. The vehicle was completely silent, with the inside lights turned on but slowly fading out as there hadn’t been an attempt at opening the door. In the far distance, he saw two lamp posts leading up to a building entrance. It must’ve been 50, maybe even 100 metres away from where he was sitting, but he wasn’t certain as he still felt a bit groggy. A sudden knock on the window cleared his head. It was Rupert, telling him to get his bags. Fable opened the car door, yawned loudly and stretched his arms up and out into the air. Rupert had already taken the bags out of the car and held the heaviest ones in his left hand. The removal of the bags from the trunk had barely made a dent in the pile of boxes that Fable had brought with him. Although a lot of his life was still left at home in the spire, there was a lot of odds and trinkets that he felt he needed to bring with him. The small bit of light the inside of the car still emitted made Fable see that his father was struggling with the carry-bag. In his right hand, Rupert held the car keys and swiftly locked the door behind Fable. The remaining two bags Fable would carry himself, but he didn’t anticipate the sheer weight of them both. Before they walked towards the building, Rupert put down his bag, cracked his fingers as they had become a bit stiff from holding the bag, and fished a small flashlight from his inner-most jacket pocket. He then picked up the bag again and the two of them started to walk along the paved path towards the lights by the entrance. Every now and then, Fable felt the need to put down his bags and readjust his grip, envying his father’s grip as he never needed to put down the bag unless he needed to do something that required him to use his left hand. As they reached the door, Fable quickly grabbed his phone and attempted to find the email regarding his accommodation for this year. With the phone turned on, he first now realized how early it was compared to how dark it was outside. It was a mid-September evening, and the clock was not much more than 8pm. Why was it so dark out? Where were the other students? Is this the right place? It took him a while to find what he was looking for: his phone didn’t necessarily have the best of reception where they were standing. Eventually, he found it. Room 093, ground-level flat. As they entered, the hallway lit up in a fluorescent light-blue colour. The contrast in light pained Fable’s eyes, but that pain settled quickly. Suddenly, commotion could be heard from the different rooms. It was still mostly silent, but some rooms echoed TV chatter or the sounds of video games. As they walked up and down the corridors, they eventually found room 093. On the door was a small slot for the occupants’ names. On the left part of the slot was Fable’s full name. On the right part of the slot however was another name: Ludwig Blodkung. The name had an ominous aura to it, but Fable was mostly shocked by the fact that he supposedly had a roommate. He decided to knock before entering to make sure that Ludwig wasn't alerted by him entering. Before his second knock landed on the door, it swung open and an angry looking, yet tired man stared at him. Rupert left Fable to go pick up the boxes so that the new roommates could get acquainted.

The man that stood just in front of Fable was a head shorter than him with piercing, amber-coloured eyes hidden behind thick-rimmed glasses. He eyed Fable up and down for what felt like an eternity before snapping out a quick “What do you want?” in an accent that Fable recognized but wasn’t strictly Strundian. Fable, having lost his composure from the aggressive nature of the man, told Ludwig who he was and that they were going to be roommates this upcoming year. The amber eyes of the man in the door suddenly opened wide, his pupils shrinking as if he had committed a cardinal sin. He shut the door in Fable’s face, making Fable let out a small yelp of surprise. There was rustling behind the door and a moment later the door was wide open with Ludwig waving Fable into the flat. He could now get a real look of how Ludwig actually looked. A quick glance made Fable realise he wasn’t a Strundman. His new roommate didn't share many of the features that other Strundmen tended to have, but rather shared the features of the tourists from Revnatinn that he so despised. Ludwig had incredibly dry-looking hair, dark enough to hide each individual lock of hair. Fable could tell that he had attempted to style it in some fashion, but it looked messy and he felt it would be rude to comment on it. Ludwig still had a snarky look to him from the encounter they had by the door. Rather than apologising for his behaviour, Ludwig thought it would be best to explain his hostile greeting. Fable didn’t really listen to Ludwig’s reasoning, nor did he care. The foreigner in front of him was aggressive, just like the foreigners in Revnatinn. It was how their language sounded, and it isn’t too out of this world to assume that an error in tone wasn’t deliberate. Fable simply nodded to Ludwig with a smile, picked up his bags, and found his room. Immediately, he laid down on the bed that was going to be his for the coming 5 years and let out a sigh of relief. He simply laid there for what felt like an eternity and thought about what would he do now that he was here? Would he solely focus on his degree? Maybe he could find some other like-minded students like him that he would hit it off with? Maybe he would try out the parts of life he wasn’t familiar with, live more on the edge? His daydreaming was interrupted by a knock on the bedroom door. Rupert had brought in his boxes and was going to head back to the KISM. Fable had forgotten that Rupert had his own business in Vithileg and a part of him had hoped that he wouldn't need to say goodbye. They both might be in the city, but Vithileg is a large place, and there is no guarantee that they will ever meet up unless it was strictly planned. Thus, the goodbye was all the tougher for Fable to go through with. Rupert held his hand out, visibly shaking and waiting for Fable. Rather than shaking it out, Fable threw himself into his father's arms and hugged him. Surprisingly, Rupert was the first one to shed a tear, something that Fable had never seen his father do before. Neither father nor son wanted to let each other go, but eventually Rupert had to go. With tears still in his eyes, Fable felt more exhausted than sad. A quick prayer to the god of emotion and harvest to calm himself and he went to bed, a part of him already feeling homesick.

The next morning, Fable awoke earlier than he thought he had ever done. He hadn’t slept well, but his body refused to let him sleep any longer. Still unsure what the time was, he checked the clock on his phone. The phone was dead. “Damn!” Fable quietly whispered as he remembered that he had forgotten to put it on charge the night before. Quietly sneaking around the flat to not awake Ludwig, he looked for any clock or indication of what time it was. Looking out the window, it was still dark, however the sun seemed to slowly be rising. Sunrise would probably mean 7AM, so not as early as he had originally thought. He grabbed all of the documents he had brought, looking for his induction table. A lot of silent scouring later and he found the documents he was looking for. He wasn’t due to be in for his first session for another hour, but there wasn’t much he could in that hour other than to get ready. First things first, he put his phone on charge so that he may actually use it and not be disconnected from the outside world. The move from the day prior had made Fable stink and he decided to get into the shower. It was a shared shower, so he thought it would be a good idea to be as silent as possible. On his way to the bathroom however, he noticed that Ludwig's coat and shoes that he had only caught a glimpse off the evening prior were already gone. Had he left early? What business could he have this early? Knowing that his flatmate wasn't home, Fable decided to be a bit louder. Nothing excessive, but there wasn’t any need to sneak around and close doors at a snail’s pace anymore. A quick shower later, Fable got dressed, had some breakfast, brushed his teeth, and styled both his hair and beard to make himself look less homeless. With 10 minutes to spare, he grabbed his bag and laptop and left for orientation.

Orientation was slow and dragged out, and although Fable was incredibly interested in the subject he was studying, his eyes felt incredibly heavy as his lecturers recalled the information on the introduction letters they had received weeks prior word for word (Fable even pulled out said letter to make sure he wasn’t making things up and word for word, only to confirm his suspicions.) The only bit of information that Fable didn’t seem to find any mention of in his letter was that of the evening curfew. It caught him off-guard, but as the rest of his course mates seemed to react mildly to it and there was no further discussion about the subject, he chose to simply accept and move on. To uphold the right level of academia, lectures started as soon as the orientation was completed, a move that Fable and many others didn’t anticipate. Separated into their smaller groups, Fable had to find where his first lecture would take place. Not knowing how to make heads or tails of the signs and layout of the university building, the different students dispersed whilst he was still standing not knowing where “Culture & Conflicts of the Konungstrund Golden Era” lecture was held. Fable became desperate to find room 227, as he didn’t want to be known as the late one by all his lecturers. He had heard through multiple different grape vines that the lecturers of Vithileg didn’t have time to look past a first impression, and thus Fable needed to make sure that his impression was in any shape negative. His panicked look must have attracted a bit of attention, because whilst frantically looking for his lecture hall, a hand was gently placed on Fable’s shoulder. The woman asked Fable if he was okay with a slight worry in her voice. He felt as if he recognized the woman in front of him, but before being able to place from where, she shows him her schedule. It clicked that he had caught a glimpse of her in the crowd of orientation, and supposedly they were both on the course together, on the same schedule. She had also fallen a bit behind everyone else but seemed to be a lot calmer than Fable. She was so neatly dressed up and in order, it made Fable feel like a train wreck in his oversized hoodie saying ‘REVNATINN’ in large college sports letters. Her hair was set up in a marine blue bow, reminding Fable of some cartoon character from his youth. It practically shone from where he was standing, as the blonde streaks in her auburn hair blinded him from where he was standing. Her smile, albeit awkward due to the situation, emitted this aura that made Fable feel strangely comfortable. She was wearing this yellow sundress with a light grey cardigan surrounding her slender torso. Fable stood in awe, only interrupted by a quick wave in front of his face. “Hello?” she said, looking to see if there was any life behind Fable’s gaze. Fable comically shook himself into shape again and introduced himself. The girl snickered awkwardly and introduced herself as Arsinoe Fangiheil. Before Fable asked her to repeat, she had done so herself. It seemed to Fable that it was a common occurrence that people got her name wrong, as she repeated her name syllable-by-syllable. Are-see-know. Once Fable felt he finally got it down, he asked Arsinoe if she knew where room 227 was as neither of them would want to be late. As if she had lived in the building her whole life, Arsinoe grabbed Fable by the wrist and led him through the building’s labyrinth of a layout until they reached the second floor and to the lecture, beating their lecturer by mere seconds. As they entered the lecture hall, they sat down at the first, best seat they could grab in the front corner of the hall.

As Fable pulled out his notebook, he noticed Arsinoe bringing out a similar notebook to his own. It was already categorised by subject with small, colourful tabs, with the different codes of the units themselves being written on them. The notebook had a bit of carving in the leather spine that slotted a pen and an eraser. Arsinoe was prepared for the university work laid before them. Meanwhile, Fable had a pen that he might be able to write with on a lucky day. As the lecturer got ready, she scanned the room up and down to get an impression of the class as a whole. In the room with them was maybe 60 students, all ranging in gender, race, and most notably, interest level. At the very back, Fable could tell that there was a group of students who had a very posh aura to them. They were all suited up in blazers with the Vithileg emblem embroidered on the left side of their chest. Their hair was filled to the brim with product, so much that Fable could smell the hairspray from the front row. Not a single one of the students looked up from their phone, and to Fable’s knowledge they most likely didn’t even know the lecturer had arrived. Either that or they already chose to not respect her. Towards the front, Fable expected to find all of the students overly excited about the subject. To his surprise, the front rows were quite empty, except for a handful of students who looked like tourists. That’s when it hit him. Obviously, the foreigners were interested in Strundian history, and the locals weren’t. Most of what was going to be taught in this lecture most Strundmen already knew about. Anyone outside the territory wouldn’t know if they weren’t taught it in grade school. Among the foreigners, Fable noticed Ludwig sitting and impatiently awaiting the lecture to start. It felt good that his flatmate had as big of an interest in political history as he did. As Fable kept scanning the room, no other group of people stood out. However, there was one man sitting alone a few rows above him. The man was wearing the garments of a KISM soldier, stripped down to the most civil clothes he could wear without standing out. This meant that although he was wearing faded light-grey camo pants, the black t-shirt and the dog tags, he didn’t look any different at a glance than any other student in the room at that moment. Knowing he was a soldier; Fable immediately felt a lot safer in the room. He had the utmost respect for the man behind him and wished that he may pursue a similar path once he’s done with his education.

As the lecturer had finished scanning the room, she sat down and introduced the unit to her students. She introduced herself as Mrs. Readman and swiftly let her students know about the basics of the subject. For Fable, it was child’s stuff. He knew most of the basics off by heart: how the divided country was reunited under a common king, how the king believed in the progress under the rule of the Strundian faith and how the faith had led the country to immense scientific and economic growth. It served as a reminder about what the crown had done for the country, and although Fable knew the stories like the back of his hand, he felt it would be good to widen his perspective and take in any new information that Mrs. Readman would have presented. As the lecture went on about how the development of the first electrical lighthouse in Konungstrund left the country in a stronger position than it ever had been prior, Fable kept shifting the focus to and fro Arsinoe and her notes, or rather lack of notes. Throughout the whole lecture, Arsinoe sat completely still and took in everything the Mrs. Readman echoed into the lecture hall. She never shifted focus to something else, never wrote anything down, she just sat there and listened to every word that Mrs. Readman said. Eventually the lecture came to an end, and as they were dismissed and Fable was packing up his stationary, his eyes darted back to Arsinoe, who slowly opened her notebook to the right unit, carefully took the pen and eraser out of its allotted slot and rapidly started taking down the notes of the entire lecture in the span of two minutes. Fable found the swiftness of her pen moving from left to right in an almost rhythmic fashion hypnotising, so much in fact that he didn’t notice the man sitting behind him tripping over him until he hit the floor. Fable turned to look at the man who fell, and in horror realised what he had done to a KISM soldier. He ran down to the man who now laid half a flight of stairs below him to check if he was okay, but suddenly the man flew off the ground and grabbed Fable by the collar. His face was incredibly red, probably a combination of the adrenaline from the fall and from an unreasonably high level of anger. Up close, Fable could now tell the man was incredibly muscular, to the point where a single punch would send Fable to the infirmary for the foreseeable future. The buzzcut on the man was just barely visible underneath a light-grey cap with letters spelling out ‘KISM’ on the front. Fable put his hands up in defence as his feet were dangling off the ground and begged for forgiveness. The man, still riding the adrenaline high, breathed deeply and put Fable down on the ground. He then took a small lap to breathe in and out, taking off his hat and wiping off some sweat that had been built up. He then leaned forward and put both hands on his knees, only to take an even deeper breath in. In a rapid movement, he then turned around with his hand held out and introduced himself to Fable. The KISM soldier was named Ridder Reithi and he very quickly let Fable know about his anger management problems and apologised quickly for the way he acted. The entire act caught Fable off guard, as the man who almost broke his first bone was now smiling larger than any smile he had seen in recent months. It didn’t matter, he was still in the presence of a soldier, and Fable’s eyes immediately lit up once he knew he wasn’t in any danger. He asked Ridder about his time in service and how he got enlisted and a hundred other questions. Ridder overwhelmed by the sudden bombardment of questions asked Fable to save the questions for him later, as he didn’t want to unload all that information on a stranger. Fable took that at face value and let Ridder off scot-free, patiently awaiting the day he would get to ask Ridder about his time in service. Ridder threw a quick glance at Arsinoe, who had sat on the sidelines taking notes this entire time. She had finished her notetaking and was now waiting for Fable to pick himself off the ground so that they may leave.

“So, you’ve met Ridder?” Arsinoe burst out as the two of them were walking down the corridor. She didn’t turn her face towards Fable, but rather kept her face down in her notes as if she was checking for errors. Fable, scratching his beard, countered Arsinoe’s question with a question of his own. “How do you know Ridder?” Arsinoe stopped in her tracks, closed her notes and looked Fable in the eyes as they both kept on walking.

“Ridder is my boyfriend, we both started here this year.” Crap, Fable immediately thought. Of course, the one girl he fell for was already dating someone. And with that meathead? What does she see in him? Fable immediately stopped that train of thought. He knew that kind of thinking made more enemies than friends and regardless of relationships. And to think of a KISM soldier as a meathead? Had he blurted that out, there would be no respect for him, and his chances would be ruined. He also didn’t want to have Arsinoe immediately think less of him because of it. He decided to choose his next words carefully. “If you don’t mind me asking, why didn’t he come with you out of class then? Is there bad blood between you or something?” Too personal, Fable immediately thought, thinking he just ruined his chances at a friendship. Arsinoe told Fable that even though they were boyfriend and girlfriend in their families’ eyes, they needed to take a break from each other until Ridder had solved his anger issues. They had feelings for each other still, but they didn’t want to wear out that relationship because of something that can have long-lasting damage on it in the future. Fable immediately felt bad about just hearing this. He had asked too personal a question, and they had only met that morning! He started to apologise for cornering her on something so personal, to which Arsinoe simply turned to look at Fable in a puzzling manner. It wasn’t something that troubled her, it was just a fact of life, just like how birds fly, kings reign, and waves crash. Arsinoe pulled out her notebook again and started reviewing the notes once more. The deafening silence that was left hanging in the air affected Fable a lot more than it seemingly affected Arsinoe, and he couldn’t shake the feeling that he had put a strain on a completely new friendship. He would need to make it up to her in some way, and he knew exactly how he would do so. He would sort out Ridder’s anger issues for her, to prove his friendship.