---
layout: posts
title:  "Where the Lighthouse Shines: Chapter 1"
date:   2020-10-02 17:00:18 +0100
categories: serial-chapter
section: writing
---

Through the green meadows of Konungstrund, the thick fog that rarely lifts, and the pine woods where men fear to go lies a small village on the coast. The village Revnatinn was sat on a bit of headland, surrounded by the dark-blue ocean on nearly all fronts. The village centre was so close to the coast and the fishing boats, it was practically built around its lighthouse, making the massive aqua-marine obelisk act more as a monument rather than a seafaring tool. Revnatinn had served its purpose a long time ago, back when the king relied on fishing to have his people fed. These days the fishing comes second to the village’s picturesque landscapes and its over-abundance of hot springs. It had become a tourist trap, and Fable hated it. Fable had lived in Revnatinn his entire life, and although he was quite young, he yearns for the days when tourists wouldn’t sit one table over from him and his mates at the local café, speaking such an aggressive language that it scares any children in the vicinity. Fable picked up his jacket, paid the waitress he has been eyeing up and down for the past couple of months with a tip too large for his current financial situation and walked into the salty sea breeze. Fable Filmer was a Strundman through and through. His brown hair was rough and unmade, with his roots already greying at such a young age, as was the curse of the Filmer family. His face was that of a sailor’s: heavy, angry-looking, bushy, but the grey eyes of his gleamed with kindness. His beard, like his hair, was quite rough as well, covering the lower parts of his face ear to ear. Despite his face, he was a scrawny kid. He wasn’t proud of his physique and preferred to hide it under sweatshirts and coats.

He fished his phone out of his pocket with terrible coordination and looked at the time. It was still early, but he had a hell of a trek to get home for the day. He walked past the lighthouse and made sure to whisper a quick prayer to the god of emotion and harvest. Although the faith of the gods of Konungstrund was very much an outdated belief, it often helped him brighten his mood a bit and if something were to come of it, he would surely have had an impact in the heavenly affairs. He passed through the docks, making sure to say hi to the local fishmonger and ask about the latest catch. Trygve had been the village fishmonger long before Fable’s father was born and every Filmer man since Fable’s grandfather’s days had been working under Trygve at some point during their lives. Trygve let out a hearty guffaw, telling Fable that age old story that the catch is always better when a Filmer is not aboard. Fable simply rolled his eyes at the old fishmonger and responded with “the catch might be better, but we Filmer’s make it more bountiful!” Trygve jokingly scoffed and let Fable on his way. As Fable got further and further away from the docks, he could see Trygve going out on his fishing boat once again. He stopped in his tracks to wave the old man off. As he got further and further away from the seafront, and the boat got smaller and smaller, Trygve still stood out like a lit lightbulb in the woods. His yellow overalls and bucket hat were always the first thing anyone took notice of when entering the city square. The tourists that came to Revnatinn always wanted to get a picture with him when he was ashore. He always had that massive smile and some lucky few even caught him mid-laugh in their pictures. Fable didn’t envy him; he could not believe it would be a fun thing to be seen as a circus animal and simply be seen as a local attraction for foreigners and tourists.

As Fable exited the village, he sighed loudly. He knew that it was only uphill from here to reach his home. The Filmer house was built generations ago, on one of the village’s fairy tale hills. From there, the Filmer’s had a view spanning the entire village, and similarly the entire village had a view of the Filmer house. It was a fairy tale house as well, with once a beautiful brickwork that was now covered in ivy, making the building almost blend into the hills. It had a spire that Fable had called the wizard tower since a very young age. The spire wasn’t used much for more than extra storage, but once or twice in his childhood, Fable had used the space for his imaginative adventures. One time he had acted as a knight, with a cardboard dragon protecting a treasure trove of old Christmas decorations and old clothes that no longer fit. Another time the tower was a crime scene, and Fable acted as both the detective and the murderer. The house sat lonely on the hill, surrounded by a single circle of pine trees planted by Fable’s grandfather. The rest of the hill was tempered and well kept, and the grass was as green as the shiniest emeralds. As he approached the house, Fable’s mother came out to greet him. She looked tired, which wasn’t out of the ordinary, but her smile proved to Fable that she had been waiting for his return for quite a while. Fable was very close to his mother. Although he wanted to be like his father, an army man who would give his life to protect Konungstrund, his mother was more a part of his life as his father was often stationed outside of Revnatinn. Fable’s mother, Benita Filmer, had an overwhelming kindness encompassing her entire aura. Whilst his father, Rupert Filmer, had clearly passed on his more aggressive sailor features, Fable had gotten his eyes from his mother. Her grey eyes were a direct reflection of Fable, as so many of the family's acquaintances liked to point out. Her coffee-brown hair was set up in a bun, with a few strands dangling in front of her weary eyes.

She quickly brought him inside as she could feel a storm blowing in from the sea. There was something extra cheery about her, but it was nothing that Fable could immediately place. Fable’s mother had a tendency to have those around her guess why she was overly excited. “A surprise should never be spoiled, no matter the importance or scale!” That was her general response when people asked her about why she was so giddy about something as small as a package having arrived or that the local school would be closed because it was a snow day. Fable knew that she was hiding a surprise and asked her what had happened that made her so giggly and happy, even though he could tell from just looking at her that she needed some sleep. Benita was often tired because of her chronic insomnia, but she always made an effort to not let her tiredness impact those she held near. She sipped on her coffee and cryptically told Fable that a letter had arrived. Of course, it was just normal shenanigans, Fable thought. A letter could be anything. It could be his pay check from working for Trygve during the summer, it could be an invitation to a party or maybe just some ad for a new shop opening up. Hell, it could even be--

Fable immediately knew why she was so giggly this time around. With mug still in her left hand, she held out a sealed envelope towards Fable. The envelope had an eggshell colour to it, and in very impressive calligraphical writing it said “Mr. Fable Filmer” on the front. Flipping it over, a marine blue seal with the symbol of a lighthouse was imprinted. Fable’s heart started beating faster than he could personally keep up with. He wanted to jump and scream and run around the house like a child drinking their very first soda, but instead he just let out a excited gasp. He was speechless, his hands trembling as his eyes darted between the envelope and his mother. Benita largely smiled behind her mug. The envelope was from Vithileg University, the royal academy of Konungstrund and the most prestigious university in this part of the world. Getting an envelope from the academy usually meant good things. If you were denied entry, you would most likely never hear about it and be left wondering for months on end. Fable had applied almost a year and a half prior and had given up hope once the new year rolled over. For him, it wasn’t so much about the education; Fable had ill-luck in his physique and he didn't take too much to training, so to join the army, his overall goal, he would need to take the academia approach instead. He slowly opened the envelope, making sure not to rip anything. Regardless of what the letter said, he wanted to keep the envelope as a collector’s item, a piece of memorabilia for the future. There’s only a few that can say that they got a letter from Vithileg University directly, even fewer who can say that their envelope is still intact. As he pulled the letter our he started mumbling out the words on the paper. It didn’t take long for his eyes to swell up. “You have been accepted to Vithileg University’s Political History course and, if you are interested in this offer, will be starting your education this autumn.” His hands couldn't stop trembling. He checked to make sure the seal was authentic, that there wasn’t any typo, anything to make sure that the letter wasn’t forged by anyone as some kind of cruel joke. However, the seal was authentic, there was no typo, he even double checked the author of the letter and cross-referenced it with other letters posted online and yep, the letters had the same author, down to the signature: Admissions Officer Geraldine Harpon.

Fable quickly put the paper down on the counter, still being careful to not rip it in any way, shape, or form. As soon as he let it go, he rushed up to his room, pulled out his grandfather's old briefcase and started packing. The briefcase had been with the Filmer family so long, it was practically a symbol of the family. The seaming was slowly falling apart but had been rudimentary fixed by simply taping it together with packaging tape. The leather had some wear and tear over the years, showing it had been thoroughly used. It was still a few weeks until he was due to arrive in Vithileg, but he was too eager to sit idly. In the moment he was too sporadic in his thinking, running between his room and packing, to sending a message to his friends from the village, to planning a celebration party. Fable had a hard time catching a breath between everything he was doing and eventually Benita stopped him in his tracks and simply hugged him. Fable calmed down and as the realization of what had happened, tears of joy finally started to pour down his cheeks. He had never been the smartest in class, but he kept fighting because he knew that Konungstrund doesn’t let anyone join the army: You need to either be very knowledgeable or very athletic to be a part of the military. Since Fable had struggled with training for so long, he knew that being accepted into the most prestigious university in Konungstrund solidified his chances of joining the military. He was going to become like his father, no matter how much effort it would take.