---
layout: posts
title:  "Last Train West"
date:   2020-01-10 23:45:45 +0100
categories: short-story
section: writing
---

Click! One moment ago, he was standing there. The next, the fractures of his skulls were drenched in disrupted brain matter. I hate killing them, the Passengers as they have come to be called. They look so much like us, they look alive, healthy, scared. The man I just killed was ragged, unkempt, bordering feral in his appearance, which was very much juxtaposed to the attire that he was wearing. Although torn and dirty, the off-white shirt and damaged khakis made me think he might once have been in the software industry, or maybe an accountant. Despite his looks, you could see the fear in his eyes from the scope of a sniper. Although this made me more uneasy than I already was, I knew the kill was necessary. I picked up my weapon, bound it to my back, and made my way down the bell tower. Although we would not expect it to show, us survivors took to the train station to wait for the last train west. Not much had changed since the upper class had vanished. There was a lot of rustling of bags, rushing to the trains, trying to get out of the city, a lot of noise for the rest of civilization to be in the dark about. There were waves of trains. No one took a car, no one took a flight. Those who got on a train had no tickets, no passport, no identification to show. Yet there was some way to differentiate those who could board and those who couldn’t. We still do not know why they left, but those who returned were... different. There was something about their looks that made us uneasy. Then there was their behaviour, actively trying to off us or avoiding contact all together. I remember the first encounter, as we lost a child that day. I was there when it happened, standing but 50 feet from her in a cabin where I was to pick up some herbs and collect some of the animals that were unfortunate to fall into our traps. The girl had hidden behind a rock, avoiding the gaze of these monsters who had appeared out of nowhere. When they came to her, in a panic she tried to get away, getting her jacket torn on a nearby bush. As she had just about started her sprint back to me, a quick bullet to her head put her down for good. They did not notice me, thank the gods above for that as I was unarmed. After they had left, I went to pick up the girl, and in a blur picked up the torn fabric on the branch as well. The rest of the station, when learning of the horrible incident, decided that if they were going to be a threat to us, we are going to be a threat to them. After that, any able bodied man or woman were to learn how to use a weapon effectively. I was on the first offense, as a volunteer. Any Passenger blood spilled by my hand would avenge the girl. The patch from the girl’s jacket I’ve sown into my own, as a token to know what I’m fighting for. Standing by the tracks of the station, I kept on wondering. What did happen so long ago? It feels like the last train could have left any time between yesterday and a hundred years ago. Time had become a blur, a concept that was not necessary outside of maybe farming or hunting. Yet, I could still remember the Passengers abandon us. Thinking back at it, maybe they have always had such an uneasy look when facing us. Maybe my mind was playing tricks on me, but the girl dying at their hand must have been a cruel act, an act in cold blood. As I heard from the men surrounding me, there were plans to attack wherever they were coming from. Nosy as I am, I told them that no one has ventured to their home before, and that someone should scout the place out beforehand. The stationmen knew exactly what I was trying to do, and quickly told me to pack my bags.

I walked, I don’t know how far, I don’t know how long, but I walked. As we knew the Passengers were the same who had gone on the last train west, I decided to walk along the tracks until I could find something that would send me somewhere else. Eventually, I found a train. I could not remember the last time I had seen a real train, the ones on the posters back at the station had reminded me what they looked like, but I could not see anything that resembled that smokey pipe at the front. I heard a noise from the other end of the train, which sounded rather ominous. Could these be the Passengers? I had hid as far away from them as possible, but still close enough to hear their conversations, see their actions. My immediate instinct was heinous actions that would make our stationchildren cry, but it seemed... normal... The men were sitting around a fire, cooking what looked to be a hunted deer, the children were laughing whilst playing with what seemed to be an ancient toy, the women were on the train doing something that I was unsure of from my angle. I could hear as one of the men laughed loudly at a joke I had missed, but the heartfelt laugh from the gut took me back to the past. I wanted to approach them, be a part of them, but I was too scared to do so. I must have hit my rifle against a rock or something, because in an instant all men were standing up, the children had vanished into the train and the women had locked the doors. The same voice that had uttered that laugh now asked very sternly “Who goes there?” This might have been my end, but I still stood up, slowly with my hands above my head. The men gasped, as if I was some freak. I could see the train blinds closing in the corner of my vision. I tried to talk to them, ask them why they were doing this, but it was like talking to a wall. A well-armed wall with fearful eyes staring straight at an unarmed scout. I tried to back up, to not interfere with what they were doing, when I could hear the women and children shouting from the train. “Shoot the Stationman!” “He’ll kill us if you don’t!” “Please, before the children get hurt!” I wanted to tell them that I did not want to hurt them, but just like the noise I had come accustomed to back in my tower, looking through my sight at the fearful Passengers walking aimlessly near our territory, taking that shot I did not want to take, it echoed into my mind. Click!