---
layout: posts
title:  "Where the Lighthouse Shines: Chapter 2"
date:   2020-10-02 17:00:18 +0100
categories: serial-chapter
section: writing
---

For Fable, the days flew by. In what felt like days, weeks had passed. But as the week before the move arrived, everything reached a snail's pace. What once felt like days was now hours, and Fable started getting impatient. He had been living out of his suitcase for a week already, had put away the stuff he didn’t need in the spire and anything that he might have used to spend the time inside such as his computer or books had all been packed into boxes. They had celebrated Fable’s last few days in Revnatinn with many of the family’s local acquaintances coming over to eat, drink, hold speeches, and congratulating Fable. Deciding to continue one’s education willingly was something that was often celebrated in Konungstrund, even more so if it was as prestigious an institution as Vithileg University. Even though Fable thoroughly enjoyed being the centre of attention for one night, a large part of him was saddened that his father hadn’t come to the celebration. He understood the reasoning though; his father couldn’t just simply leave his post because of his son going to university. In some situations, even the country needs to come before the individual. After the celebration, Fable made a trip to the Revnatinn lighthouse and made a quick prayer to the god of emotion and harvest to still the waves of sadness that his father hadn’t come. He understood why he hadn’t come, but just because something makes sense doesn’t mean that one's emotions stay calm.

The sun had set on the horizon, and the lamp posts had lit up around the town square. Fable simply stood there, with the palm of his hand firmly placed on the lighthouse whispering the same prayer to still the waves in his heart over and over again until he had calmed himself. The town square had emptied out long ago, the houses lining its edge had one by one turned off their lights. Eventually, it was time for Fable to leave. The prayer had done very little to calm him down, but he could at least keep his cool for the time being. Silently, he left the town square when he saw a shadowy figure on the path he was heading down. Normally, he would ignore it; he wasn’t alone in the village after all, and maybe the figure was just out for a midnight walk. This time, however, the figure was practically standing still on the one path leading home. Fable knew there was no other road that led home, and even though he didn’t want to interact with anyone now that he felt the most vulnerable, he knew he had to walk down that road. The figure still stood in the same position as he had before, not moving an inch. Fable still couldn’t make out who it was, but he didn’t exactly make an effort to figure out who it was. However, he started to notice that the figure’s hands were trembling. Fable called out to the stranger and asked him if he was okay. There was a loud gasp of air, as if the man was about to answer, but he cut himself short. Instead he sat down his bag, went down onto one knee and held his arms wide open. Fable was at first confused but as if from a movie, the lighthouse turned on and quickly shone its light over the shadowy figure to reveal to Fable who it was.

Rupert Filmer had asked to be relieved of service earlier that week after hearing the news of his son being accepted for university. He had been stationed in Vithileg since the winter of the year prior as there had been some commotion brewing, but recently it had cooled down enough that some soldiers could be relieved. However, Rupert weren't to be off duty for long and was encouraged to be back in Vithileg by the end of the week. This did not matter as his son needed to be in Vithileg at approximately the same time, a happy coincidence that Rupert would take advantage of as best as he can. While hugging his father, Fable felt the little effect that had come of his prayers fade and the warm hug felt more like home than ever before. His father was still in his parade gear, wearing the colours of the Konungstrund Internal Security Militia: a light grey uniform with purple accents, decorated with multiple medals of honour. Rupert had been serving a long time, and his achievements were well known gossip within the KISM. The other soldiers called him “The Jack of Spades” because of the lengths he would go to protect the king, queen, and crown. When this title started to be used, he wholeheartedly embraced it, and asked to have the card engraved on his dog tags, a symbol that Fable hadn’t noticed until he was now hugging him. His hair was almost completely grey, with the tips still showing some signs of colour. The beard he had when Fable left had been shaved off, but there was still enough stubble to cover his cheeks, chin, and philtrum. He almost looked younger than Fable, Fable thought. As Rupert let go of Fable, they began walking back towards the Filmer house, with them both exchanging stories about what had happened between then and the last time they had seen each other. Rupert went on and on about how the commotion that he had helped quell was too small to have such a large infantry squad take part in. When Fable asked what it had been about, Rupert dropped the cheery attitude he had talking to his son and immediately became a bit gloom. From his eyes, Fable could tell that Rupert wanted to tell him, but all that was uttered was “It’s classified.” A sentence that Fable was familiar with and was a fact of life he just had to accept. To fill the awkward silence that had been created, Fable tried to make some casual small talk about the local café’s new menu and told the story of the tourist who stood at the counter too long, having trouble ordering a Hindberkex. It was appreciated and relieved the tension that had been made, but Fable could still sense that his father was trying to hide his true emotions in the moment.

It was immediately made clear to Fable that Rupert hadn’t told anyone about his arrival. As they climbed up the hill, Benita (who had been waiting for Fable since he left the house) immediately ran down the hill and threw herself into Rupert’s arms. It had been even longer between the two of them meeting. Last time Fable met his father had been on an open day in Vithileg by pure chance. That was a year ago. Benita must have last seen her husband an additional year on top of that. Being as important for the KISM as Rupert was, there was rarely any space between his deployments. As the three of them walked back to the house, a sense of bliss filled the air. The family all sat down and enjoyed each other’s company. It had been a long time since they all sat around that living room table. As they talked, Benita started off as the cheeriest one, telling her own stories about what had happened in the village whilst Rupert had been gone, but slowly she showed signs of a bittersweet sadness as she got quieter and quieter. Fable took note of this first, and started to comfort his mother, not knowing what had caused this tonal shift. It had never occurred to him what might happen to her now. Her only son was going off to university and might not be back for a while. Her husband will be back in duty approximately at the same time, and he might not be back for even longer. Fable started to sense a feeling of guilt of leaving his mother behind. She was sick, she had very few people to talk to, and now the few she talked to were leaving her. Being left vulnerable like that would be horrible for anyone. Fable asked her if she wanted him to stay with her, but as if someone had offended her, Benita told him that his life cannot revolve around his mother. “The only one who has an obligation to stay with me is my husband, but he is too important to our country.” Rupert, who had largely been on the side-lines of this conversation, now felt guilty. Determined to help, options started flying on what can be done to help her, as neither husband nor son wanted the most important woman in their life to suffer. Rupert suggested moving her to Vithileg with them, but the trip would be to exhausting for her. Fable suggested Rupert pleading for a new position in Revnatinn, but Rupert said that “he cannot do that, even if he tried” before immediately silencing himself. This quiet and timid version of his father was not a side that Fable recognized, but he did not feel as if it was appropriate to bring up any additional conflicts whilst sorting one out. A lot of debating later, Rupert told Benita of the carer who had cared for his mother before her passing. The local carer would most likely have training that could potentially treat her insomnia, and once that was cured, he could look into relocating her to Vithileg. Benita thought for a minute and thought that it might be the best choice after all.

Eventually the day came for Fable to move and for Rupert to return to the field. As Benita stood on the driveway and waved them off, she had the carer Rupert mentioned come out of the family home with a cup of a coffee for her. The carer, Stefan Helpare, had been Rupert’s friend from his younger days. Once out of college, their lives had taken different paths but with each a similar cause. Rupert had joined the military to help defend his country and Stefan, who was still a student, was determined to become a doctor and help his fellow Strundmen. Stefan and his wife Esther lived in a large apartment by the town square with a great view of the lighthouse. Their son, Johan, was the spitting image of Stefan. They both had dark brown, coarse hair with some naturally lighter highlights hidden within their hair. Fable had always considered Johan’s face “punchable” from their time in college together, and it was clear that those traits were passed down from his father. Both of the men had a very smug look to their face, from their seemingly condescendingly smiling eyes down to a short and thin mouth, ending in a very pronounced cleft chin. Johan had always been self-conscious about his chin, and thus Fable had never mentioned it in ill will. Despite his looks, Johan and Fable had gotten on very well in school, like their fathers before them. Johan had not joined his father in waving them goodbye, which was fine as they had met at the party a few days prior. As the car left the street that Fable had known his whole life, he caught a glimpse of Benita and Stefan, expecting them to move inside. Stefan must’ve tried as he could be seen in the doorway, turned towards Benita. But Benita simply stood her ground and stared at the car as it left her view. As Fable lost sight of his mother, he took a deep breath and looked at the landscapes surrounding him. The hills really were as movie-like as he had heard from the aggressive sounding tourists. The world around him was as green as it could be, with the sky being its signature grey of a fog that seemingly would never lift. He saw the pine woods in the distance, where the common folktale was that the god of life had taken the shape of a fox to live peacefully. If you were to attempt to disturb a fox in the forest, your homestead was to be plagued for days upon days by something undetermined. There had been mentions of poor fishing luck and bacteria rotting the food supplies, but also other catastrophes such as plagues and tsunamis. Fable realized at a young age that it had only been folk-tales told to not disturb the wildlife and to not wander off into the forest on his own, but these tales always made Fable feel more at home, as if his life within the village extended past the village borders, blending with the rest of the world. Vithileg was still hours away, but just looking out the window, taking in the landscape with some music in his ears would make the hours fly by. Like the stories that he had been told as a child, Fable was not leaving his home but rather expanding the view of what his home was.